Updated explainer (#1216)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/stack/interop/predeploy.mdx

Anyone can trigger the execution or validation of cross chain messages, on behalf of any user.

- **Address:** `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000022`
- **Specs:** [`CrossL2Inbox`](https://specs.optimism.io/interop/predeploys.html#crossl2inbox)
- **Source code:** [`CrossL2Inbox`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/CrossL2Inbox.sol)

## L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger

The `L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger` is a higher level abstraction on top of the `CrossL2Inbox` that provides general message passing.
It is utilized, among other things, for secure transfers ERC20 tokens between L2 chains. 
Messages sent through the `L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger` on the source chain receive both replay protection and domain binding (the executing transaction can only be valid on a single chain).

- **Address:** `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000023`
- **Specs:** [`L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger`](https://specs.optimism.io/interop/predeploys.html#l2tol2crossdomainmessenger)
- **Source code:** [`L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger.sol)

> ## OptimismSuperchainERC20Factory

Reviewer: remove - not part of initial release

`OptimismSuperchainERC20Factory` creates ERC20 contracts that implement the SuperchainERC20 standard, grants mint-burn rights to the `L2StandardBridge`, and includes a remoteToken variable. These ERC20s are called `OptimismSuperchainERC20` and can be converted back and forth with `OptimismMintableERC20` tokens. The goal of the `OptimismSuperchainERC20` is to extend functionalities of the `OptimismMintableERC20` so that they are interop compatible.

- **Address:** `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000026`
- **Specs:** [`OptimismSuperchainERC20Factory`](https://specs.optimism.io/interop/predeploys.html#optimismsuperchainerc20factory)
- **Source code:** [`OptimismSuperchainERC20Factory`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/OptimismSuperchainERC20Factory.sol)

> ## OptimismSuperchainERC20Beacon

Reviewer: remove - not part of initial release

---
title: Interoperability predeploys
lang: en-US
description: How it works.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import Image from 'next/image'

import { InteropCallout } from '@/components/WipCallout'

<InteropCallout />

# Interoperability predeploys

The following predeploys have been added to enable interoperability. 
*Predeployed smart contracts* exist at predetermined addresses, coming from the genesis state.

> They are similar to [precompiles](https://www.evm.codes/precompiled) but run directly in the EVM instead of running as native code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They're similar to [precompiles](https://www.evm.codes/precompiled) but run directly in the EVM instead of running as native code.
```

## CrossL2Inbox

The `CrossL2Inbox` is the system predeploy for cross chain messaging.
Anyone can trigger the execution or validation of cross chain messages, on behalf of any user.

- **Address:** `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000022`
- **Specs:** [`CrossL2Inbox`](https://specs.optimism.io/interop/predeploys.html#crossl2inbox)
- **Source code:** [`CrossL2Inbox`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/CrossL2Inbox.sol)

## L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger

The `L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger` is a higher level abstraction on top of the `CrossL2Inbox` that provides general message passing.

> It is utilized, among other things, for secure transfers ERC20 tokens between L2 chains. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's utilized for secure ERC20 token transfers between L2 chains.
```

Reviewer 2: Either the above suggestion, or explain "among other things"

- **Address:** `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000026`
- **Specs:** [`OptimismSuperchainERC20Factory`](https://specs.optimism.io/interop/predeploys.html#optimismsuperchainerc20factory)
- **Source code:** [`OptimismSuperchainERC20Factory`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/OptimismSuperchainERC20Factory.sol)

## OptimismSuperchainERC20Beacon

To enable upgrades, `OptimismSuperchainERC20` contracts use [the `BeaconProxy` pattern](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/3.x/api/proxy#beacon).
This contract is the `Beacon` part, which provides the implementation address for those proxies.

- **Address:** `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000027`
- **Specs:** [`OptimismSuperchainERC20Beacon`](https://specs.optimism.io/interop/predeploys.html#beaconcontract)
- **Source code:** [`OptimismSuperchainERC20Beacon`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/OptimismSuperchainERC20Beacon.sol)

> */}

Author: It will be easier to add them back when the time comes if they are commented out, rather than having to dig in the commit history.
